 🎯 NEXT STEPS REVIEW FROM EARLIER CHAT

  ✅ PHASE 1 COMPLETED: Project Reorganization

  - Safe reorganization with proper src/ structure ✅
  - Enhanced testing framework ✅
  - All functionality preserved ✅

  🚀 PHASE 2: Deep Learning Enhancement (CURRENT FOCUS)

  Based on our earlier plan:

  Deep TDA Model Improvements

  - Current baseline: 70.6% F1-score (Hybrid Multi-Scale + Graph TDA)
  - Target: 85%+ F1-score with topological deep learning
  - Focus: Real data only (no synthetic)

  Kill Chain Expansion Strategy

  From our earlier analysis:
  kill_chain_tda_features = {
      "reconnaissance": "Star-like scanning patterns + H0 holes in connection graphs",
      "initial_access": "New node appearance + H1 cycles in auth flows",
      "privilege_escalation": "Network hierarchy elevation + H2 voids in privilege matrices",
      "lateral_movement": "Path-like connectivity + Evolving H1 cycles",
      "exfiltration": "Hub-like aggregation + Large H0 components in data flows"
  }

  Multi-Attack Detection Enhancement

  - Expand beyond infiltration to DDoS, PortScan, WebAttacks
  - Cross-attack pattern learning using all CIC-IDS2017 days
  - Temporal correlation across attack phases

  🔧 PHASE 3: Optimization & Validation (NEXT)

  From earlier plan:
  1. Ensemble Optimization (70.6% → 75%): GridSearch, XGBoost integration
  2. Feature Engineering refinement: L1 regularization, PCA optimization
  3. Multi-Dataset Validation: NSL-KDD, UNSW-NB15, IoT datasets
  4. Cross-dataset generalization testing

  📊 PHASE 4: Advanced Integration (FUTURE)

  1. Multi-Parameter Persistence: 2D persistence surfaces
  2. Wasserstein Distance Evolution: Track topological changes over time
  3. Production Deployment: Docker containerization with monitoring

  🎯 IMMEDIATE ACTION PLAN

  Let me create a focused plan for improving the deep learning model with real data and kill chain expansion:

● Update Todos
  ⎿  ☐ Audit all algorithms for synthetic data usage and eliminate it                  
     ☐ Establish 70.6% F1-score baseline using only real CIC-IDS2017 data
     ☐ Enhance deep TDA model with kill chain awareness and multi-attack detection
     ☐ Add privilege escalation detection patterns to deep model
     ☐ Train on all CIC-IDS2017 attack types (DDoS, PortScan, WebAttacks, Infiltration)

● Should we start with auditing for synthetic data usage across our algorithms, or would you prefer to jump straight into enhancing the deep learning model with kill
   chain expansion and multi-attack detection?

  Based on our earlier strategic plan, the priority order was:
  1. Deep Learning Enhancement (current focus) - targeting 85%+ F1-score
  2. Kill Chain Expansion - adding privilege escalation, reconnaissance patterns
  3. Multi-Attack Training - using all CIC-IDS2017 attack types
  4. Real Data Validation - eliminating any synthetic data dependencies

  Which direction would you like to pursue first?